Event Hook and ngrok guide draft (#2467)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/event-hook-ngrok/main/index.md

---
title: Event Hooks with ngrok
excerpt: How to demonstrate Event Hooks using ngrok to expose a local app to the internet.
layout: Guides
---

This guide demonstrates how to develop and test Okta Event Hooks with the ngrok utility.

Event Hooks are outbound calls from Okta that can be used to notify your own software systems of events occurring in your Okta org. See [Event Hooks](/docs/concepts/event-hooks/) for an overview.

The ngrok utility exposes local web servers to the internet, and can enable the testing of Okta Event Hooks using a local application, rather than an internet-based production or test external service.

To use this guide, you need the following:

- An Okta developer org. [Create an org for free](https://developer.okta.com/signup/).
- A local application. Or use the one provided in the following guide.
- The ngrok utility. Installation details are provided in the following guide.

With those prerequisites satisfied, use the following steps to get up-and-running:

1. [Install ngrok](/#install-ngrok)
1. [Create a local sample app](/#create-a-local-application)
1. [Set up an Event Hook](/#create-an-okta-event-hook)

> 1. [Preview and test](/#preview-test-and-review-the-event-hook)

Reviewer: These 4 anchor links didn't seem to work for me when I ran this on my local machine. For example clicking on 1st link sent me to
http://localhost:8080/#install-ngrok

instead of
http://localhost:8080/docs/guides/event-hook-ngrok/nodejs/main/#install-ngrok

Author: Thanks. I've removed these links as we're using a different "architecture" for our guides now.

## Install ngrok

If you already have ngrok installed, move on to the next step! If not, follow the installation instructions at [https://ngrok.com/download](https://ngrok.com/download).

Some installation notes:

- You do not need to have an account to install and run ngrok, but creating a free account provides more features as well as basic authentication.
- You can install ngrok directly in your project folder, as documented from the ngrok download page. Or you can install on your system's path directory to be able to run ngrok from any folder. Alternatively, you can install the executable in your favorite local folder, but you'll need the folder path when referencing the tool.

### Run ngrok

After installing ngrok, ensure that it's running by creating a "tunnel" into a local port (8082 in this example). If you installed directly into your project folder, run the following command in your terminal:

```terminal
> ./ngrok http 8082
```

or if you installed in your system path:

```terminal
> ngrok http 8082
```

or if you used your favorite folder:

```terminal
> ~/applications/ngrok http 8082
```

> If you see the following content in your terminal, ngrok is running successfully:

Reviewer: Maybe we should highlight the ngrok URL in the screenshot so it's clear that it will be needed later on when setting up the Okta Event Hook

Author: I agree. Noticed this when I re-ran my project this week. I've added a "NOTE" underneath the screen shot to copy this URL, but I'll look at highlighting it in the image as well.

![A screen shot of a terminal that displays an ngrok session status, with online in green. The session status contains urls that tunnel into the local port.](/img/ngrok-and-event-hooks-session-status.png)

See [ngrok](https://ngrok.com) or their [documentation](https://ngrok.com/docs) for further information.

## Create a local application

<StackSelector snippet="sample-app"/>

## Create an Okta Event Hook

Create the Okta Event Hook to work with your local application, which can now be exposed externally. The Event Hook must be set up and verified within your Okta Admin Console.

### Set up the Event Hook

1. Sign in to your [Okta org](https://login.okta.com/).

2. From the Admin Console, go to **Workflow** > **Event Hooks**.

3. Click **Create Event Hook**. The **Add Event Hook Endpoint** dialog box opens.

4. In the **Name** field, add a unique name for the Hook (in this example, "Deactivated User Event Hook").

> 5. In the **URL** field, add your external service URL, including endpoint. For this example, use the code endpoint, `/userDeactivated` from `server.js` with the `https://` URL from the ngrok session. For example, your URL should appear similar to: `https://28333dd3ddf3.ngrok.io/userDeactivated`.

Reviewer: I had to scroll up to the ngrok session screenshot to figure out what my ngrok URL was - how we can make this a bit more clear on where to find this for those unfamiliar with ngrok and using it for the 1st time. (See my earlier comment on highlighting the ngrok URL)

Author: I think I'll add another snippet screen shot of the ngrok terminal, just focusing on the URL. That should be enough for comprehension, I hope.

### Preview

To run a preview call of your Event Hook, sign in to your Okta org as the super admin.

1. In the Admin Console, go to **Workflow** > **Event Hooks**.
2. Locate the Event Hook you created during the set-up step. In this example, select `Deactivated User Event Hook` or the name you gave the Event Hook.
3. Click the **Actions** menu for this hook, and select **Preview**.
4. In the **Configure Event Hook request** section, select an event from the **Event Type** drop-down menu. In this example, there is only one: `User deactivated (user.lifecycle.deactivate)`.
5. Select a previous recent event (in this case, a user deactivation) from the **System Log Event** drop-down menu. The **Preview & Deliver Event Hook** section populates the JSON body of the Event Hook. If no event is available, the JSON body populates with sample data.
6. Optionally, click **Edit** to modify the JSON body call. For example, you can change the `target` object's property, `displayName`, to `John Doe`.
7. Ensure that both your ngrok session and local sample application are running.

    >**Note:** If you start a new ngrok session at any time, make sure to update the Event Hook URL.

> 8. Click **Deliver Request**. The Event Hook Preview displays the status request as either successful or a failure. Check your local application console. The following message displays if successful:

Reviewer: This works if there is a previous recent event but if I try to Deliver Request with a dummy event b/c there is no event available, the server fails:
<img width="900" alt="Screen Shot 2021-11-04 at 2 24 18 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67654866/140422744-90b93916-aeb2-438f-97bc-31cb9b1bc634.png">

Need to make the server.js code resilient enough to handle both a recent User Deactivated event and a dummy JSON event.  You can just subscribe to another event type that you don't have a previous event and test with the dummy event if you want to test it.  The JSON payload of all dummy events are the same, regardless of the event type

Author: Yes, this completely threw me, too, after re-running this project after a couple months. I have added a note to Edit the dummy event data and add a target. Would that be enough?

Or .... I was thinking of a new Event Type to profile here, too. I was hoping to find something that could easily be tested; I'll do some more poking around to perhaps change the Event Type and code slightly.

Author: Updated a new event type, User Create (user.lifecycle.create) and include a direct instruction to Add a user prior to previewing.

    ![A screen shot of the ngrok terminal that includes a simple line item of a call.](/img/ngrok-and-event-hooks-terminal-calls.png)

### Test

To run a test of your Event Hook:

1. Ensure that both your ngrok session and local sample application are running.
2. In your Okta org, sign in as an administrator and create a test user in the Admin Console.
    - Go to **Directory** > **People**, and click **Add Person**.
    - As an example, add the user John Doe as seen from the [Event Object sample code](/docs/guides/event-hook-implementation/event-object).
3. For this user, select the User's profile by clicking John Doe's name.
4. Click the **More Actions** drop-down menu, and select **Deactivate**.
5. Confirm the deactivation.
6. Navigate back to your local application's console. You should see the following output to the console:

    `The user John Doe has been deactivated on the Okta org!`
7. Check your ngrok terminal session. Each call recorded by ngrok appears in the terminal.

    ![A screen shot of the ngrok terminal that includes a simple line item of a call.](/img/ngrok-and-event-hooks-terminal-calls.png)

> ### Review ngrok dashboard

Reviewer: This is an awesome tool - I would rather use this to review the calls on this web page instead of checking the ngrok terminal session. Can we put this section somehow higher on the page so it can be used earlier to help review/troubleshoot the ngrok calls?

Author: I could wrap this content into the testing section above, which, I agree, makes more sense that an afterthought. Or bump it up to the top in the ngrok section. Or both. I'll play around a bit.

> The ngrok inspection interface provides an opportunity to review all calls to your local application. See [ngrok documentation](https://ngrok.com/docs#inspect-requests) for details on using this interface. With the ngrok utility running, open the following URL in a browser: `http://localhot:4040`.

Reviewer: I think there's a typo here - it should be "http://localhost:4040/"

Author: Fixed.

---
title: Event Hooks with ngrok
excerpt: How to demonstrate Event Hooks using ngrok to expose a local app to the internet.
layout: Guides
---

<StackSelector class="cleaner-selector"/>

This guide provides a working example of an Okta Event Hook. It uses the ngrok utility to expose a local application to the internet and receive and respond to Event Hook calls. Event Hooks are outbound calls from Okta that can notify your own software systems of events occurring in your Okta org. The ngrok utility enables the testing of Okta Event Hooks locally, rather than implementing an internet-based production or test external service.

---

**Learning outcomes**

> * Understand the Okta Event Hook calls and responses

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't these have periods?

> * Understand the Okta Event Hook calls and responses

Reviewer 2: Should these have periods?

Author: Good question. Do you consider this a full sentence? The subject is implied. If so, yes; if not, no. According to our infodev style guide. Of course, all current versions are inconsistent on use. I'll ping Christine.

Author: Confirmed yes. And done. Thanks.

* You don't need to have an account to install and run ngrok, but creating a free account provides more features as well as basic authentication.
* You can install ngrok directly in your project folder, as documented from the ngrok download page. Or you can install on your system's path directory to be able to run ngrok from any folder. Alternatively, you can install the executable in your favorite local folder, but you'll need the folder path when referencing the tool.

### Run ngrok

After installing ngrok, ensure that it's running by creating a "tunnel" into a local port (8082 in this example). If you installed directly into your project folder, run the following command in your terminal:

```terminal
> ./ngrok http 8082
```

or if you installed in your system path:

```terminal
> ngrok http 8082
```

or if you used your favorite folder:

```terminal
> ~/applications/ngrok http 8082
```

If you see the following content in your terminal, ngrok is running successfully:

![A screen shot of a terminal that displays an ngrok session status, with online in green. The session status contains urls that tunnel into the local port.](/img/ngrok-and-event-hooks-session-status.png)

> > **Note:** Copy the forwarding URL that is available from the ngrok terminal session. For example, `https://2d20-142-126-163-77.ngrok.io`. You'll use this URL when setting up your Okta Event Hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Copy the forwarding URL that is available from the ngrok terminal session. For example, `https://2d20-142-126-163-77.ngrok.io`. You need this URL when setting up your Okta Event Hook.
```

Each call to your local application appears in the interface and includes the response body, header, and other details:

![A screen shot of the ngrok web interface that includes the response body, header, and other details.](/img/ngrok-and-event-hooks-web-interface.png)

## Create an Okta Event Hook

Create the Okta Event Hook to work with your local application, which can now be exposed externally. The Event Hook must be set up and verified within your Okta Admin Console.

### Set up the Event Hook

1. Sign in to your [Okta org](https://login.okta.com/).

2. From the Admin Console, go to **Workflow** > **Event Hooks**.

3. Click **Create Event Hook**. The **Add Event Hook Endpoint** dialog box opens.

4. In the **Name** field, add a unique name for the Hook (in this example, "New User Event Hook").

5. In the **URL** field, add your external service URL, including endpoint. For this example, use the code endpoint, `/userCreated` from `server.js` with the `https://` URL from the [ngrok session](#run-ngrok). For example, your URL should appear similar to: `https://2d20-142-126-163-77.ngrok.io/userCreated`.

> 6. Include authentication field and secret. In this example, our `server.js` code uses Basic Authentication:

Reviewer 2: Because you refer explicitly to the UI components, should you capitalize and bold?

Author: Will do.
